Provide instructions for resource change notifications in tools (#9283)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/plugins/running_code_in_the_editor.rst

emit the ``changed`` signal whenever a property is set:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    # Make Your Resource a tool.
    @tool
    class_name MyResource
    extends Resource

    @export var property = 1:
        set(new_setting):
            property = new_setting
            # Emit a signal when the property is changed.
            changed.emit()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyResource : Resource
    {
        private float _property = 1;

        [Export]
        public float Property
        {
            get => _property;
            set
            {
                _property = value;
                // Emit a signal when the property is changed.
                EmitSignal(SignalName.Changed);
            }
        }
    }

You then want to connect the signal when a new resource is set:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @tool
    class_name MyTool
    extends Node

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            resource = new_resource
            # Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.

>             resource.changed.connect(Callable(self, "_on_resource_changed")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)
```

    func _on_resource_changed():
        print("My resource just changed!")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyTool : Node
    {
        private MyResource _resource;

        [Export]
        public MyResource Resource
        {
            get => _resource;
            set
            {
                _resource = value;
                // Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.
                _resource.Changed += OnResourceChanged;
            }
        }
    }

    private void OnResourceChanged()
    {
        GD.Print("My resource just changed!");
    }

> 

Author: Recommending users to also disconnect the signals. I think it is fair to put it last and not include it above, because it will rarely cause issues (just some unneeded updates) when overlooked and would mix up the order of explanation otherwise.
```suggestion
Lastly, you need to disconnect the signal if the previous resource was not ``null.``
.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            if resource != null: resource.changed.disconnect(_on_resource_changed)
            resource = new_resource
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)
.. code-tab:: csharp
    [Export]
    public MyResource Resource
    {
        get => _resource;
        set
        {
            // Disconnect the signal if the previous resource was not null
            if (_resource != null) { _resource.Changed -= OnResourceChanged; }
            _resource = value;
            _resource.Changed += OnResourceChanged;
        }
    }

```

    to run in the editor too. Autoload nodes cannot be accessed in the editor at
    all.

> Getting notified about Resources changing
> -----------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting notified when resources change
--------------------------------------

```

Author: Hm I personally like to capitalise Keywords, and in this case it is referring to a class. But I have just looked around the wiki and that seems to not be common practce.

> On some occastions you want your tool to use a resource. However, when you change an
> attribute of that resource in the editor, the ``set()`` function of your tool will
> not get called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some times you want your tool to use a resource. However, when you change an
property of that resource in the editor, the ``set()`` method of your tool will
not be called.
```

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @tool
    class_name MyTool
    extends Node

>     @export var resource:MyResource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @export var resource: MyResource:
```

        set(new_resource):
            resource = new_resource
            _on_resource_set()
    

>     # This will only be called, when you create, delete or paste a resource.
>     # You will not get an update when tweaking properteis of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # This will only be called when you create, delete, or paste a resource.
    # You will not get an update when tweaking properties of it.
```

    func _on_resource_set():
        print("My resource was set!")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyTool : Node
    {

>         private float _resource = 1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        private MyResource _resource;
```

        [Export]
        public MyResource Resource
        {
            get => _resource;
            set
            {
                _resource = value;

>                 OnResourceSet()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                OnResourceSet();
```

Author: My arch enemy, the semicolon.

            }
        }
    }

>     # This will only be called, when you create, delete or paste a resource.
>     # You will not get an update when tweaking properteis of it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // This will only be called when you create, delete, or paste a resource.
    // You will not get an update when tweaking properties of it.
```

    private void OnResourceSet()
    {

>         print("My resource was set!");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        GD.Print("My resource was set!");
```

    }

> To get around this problem, you first have to make your resource a tool and make it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get around this problem you first have to make your resource a tool and make it
```

> emit a signal, whenever a property is set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
emit a signal whenever a property is set:
```

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

>     # Make Your Resource a tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    # Make Your Resource a tool.
```

    # Make Your Resource a tool.
    @tool
    class_name MyResource
    extends Resource

    # Declare a signal.

>     signal property_updated

Reviewer 2: Instead of declaring and emitting a custom signal, we may want to direct users towards the `changed` signal and the `emit_changed` method.

Author: Okay, I did not find that signal, it seems really useful.

    @export var property = 1:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        set(new_setting):
            property = new_setting

>             # Emit a signal, when a property is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # Emit a signal when the property is changed.
```

            property_updated.emit()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyResource : Resource
    {
        private float _property = 1;

>         # Declare a signal.        

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Declare a signal.
```

        [Signal]
        public delegate void PropertyUpdatedEventHandler();

        [Export]
        public float Property
        {
            get => _property;
            set
            {
                _property = value;

>                 #Emit a signal, when property is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // Emit a signal when the property is changed.
```

                EmitSignal(SignalName.PropertyUpdated);
            }
        }
    }

> You then want to connect the signal when a new resource is set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You then want to connect the signal when a new resource is set:

```

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @tool
    class_name MyTool
    extends Node

>     @export var resource:MyResource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @export var resource: MyResource:
```

        set(new_resource):
            resource = new_resource
            # Connect the signal you just declared as soon as a new resource is being added.

>             resource.property_updated.connect(Callable(self, "_on_resource_updated")

Reviewer 2: If the previous `resource` value was not null, then you also need to disconnect from its signal.

Author: okay, will do.

Author: Have done it. I once again cannot commit it myself, because the review is pending. Sorry about that :c

Author: I added a new section to explain this.

    func _on_resource_updated():
        print("My resource just changed!")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyTool : Node
    {

>         private float _resource = 1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        private MyResource _resource;
```

        [Export]
        public MyResource Resource
        {
            get => _resource;
            set
            {
                _resource = value;

>                 # Connect the signal you just declared as soon as a new resource is being added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // Connect the signal you just declared as soon as a new resource is being added.
```

                _resource.PropertyUpdated += OnResourceUpdated;
            }
        }
    }

    private void OnResourceUpdated()
    {

>         GD.Print("My Resource just updated!");

Reviewer 2: To match the GDScript example.

```suggestion
        GD.Print("My resource just changed!");
```

>         print("My Resource just updated!");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        GD.Print("My Resource just updated!");
```

    class_name MyResource
    extends Resource

    # Declare a signal.
    signal property_updated

    @export var property = 1:
        set(new_setting):
            property = new_setting
            # Emit a signal when the property is changed.
            property_updated.emit()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyResource : Resource
    {
        private float _property = 1;

        // Declare a signal.
        [Signal]
        public delegate void PropertyUpdatedEventHandler();

        [Export]
        public float Property
        {
            get => _property;
            set
            {
                _property = value;
                // Emit a signal when the property is changed.
                EmitSignal(SignalName.PropertyUpdated);
            }
        }
    }

You then want to connect the signal when a new resource is set:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @tool
    class_name MyTool
    extends Node

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            resource = new_resource
            # Connect the signal you just declared as soon as a new resource is being added.

>             resource.property_updated.connect(Callable(self, "_on_resource_updated")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            resource.property_updated.connect(_on_resource_updated)
```

Author: Today on more things I would have liked to know earlier.

            }
        }
    }

You then want to connect the signal when a new resource is set:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @tool
    class_name MyTool
    extends Node

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            resource = new_resource
            # Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)

    func _on_resource_changed():
        print("My resource just changed!")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyTool : Node
    {
        private MyResource _resource;

        [Export]
        public MyResource Resource
        {
            get => _resource;
            set
            {
                _resource = value;
                // Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.
                _resource.Changed += OnResourceChanged;
            }
        }
    }

    private void OnResourceChanged()
    {
        GD.Print("My resource just changed!");
    }

Lastly, you should to disconnect the signal as the old resource being used and changed somewhere else

> would cause unneeded updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
would cause unneeded updates.

```

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            # Disconnect the signal if the previous resource was not null.

>             if resource != null: resource.changed.disconnect(_on_resource_changed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            if resource != null:
                resource.changed.disconnect(_on_resource_changed)
```

            resource = new_resource
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)

> .. code-tab:: csharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. code-tab:: csharp

```

    {
        private MyResource _resource;

        [Export]
        public MyResource Resource
        {
            get => _resource;
            set
            {
                _resource = value;
                // Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.
                _resource.Changed += OnResourceChanged;
            }
        }
    }

    private void OnResourceChanged()
    {
        GD.Print("My resource just changed!");
    }

Lastly, you should to disconnect the signal as the old resource being used and changed somewhere else
would cause unneeded updates.
.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            # Disconnect the signal if the previous resource was not null.
            if resource != null: resource.changed.disconnect(_on_resource_changed)
            resource = new_resource
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)

.. code-tab:: csharp

    [Export]
    public MyResource Resource
    {
        get => _resource;
        set
        {
            // Disconnect the signal if the previous resource was not null.

>             if (_resource != null) { _resource.Changed -= OnResourceChanged; }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            if (_resource != null)
            {
                _resource.Changed -= OnResourceChanged;
            }
```
Same here IMO, @raulsntos

            set
            {
                _resource = value;
                OnResourceSet();
            }
        }
    }

    // This will only be called when you create, delete, or paste a resource.
    // You will not get an update when tweaking properties of it.
    private void OnResourceSet()
    {
        GD.Print("My resource was set!");
    }

To get around this problem you first have to make your resource a tool and make it
emit the ``changed`` signal whenever a property is set:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    # Make Your Resource a tool.
    @tool
    class_name MyResource
    extends Resource

    @export var property = 1:
        set(new_setting):
            property = new_setting
            # Emit a signal when the property is changed.
            changed.emit()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyResource : Resource
    {
        private float _property = 1;

        [Export]
        public float Property
        {
            get => _property;
            set
            {
                _property = value;
                // Emit a signal when the property is changed.

>                 EmitSignal(SignalName.Changed);

Reviewer 2: There's a dedicated method for this in `Resource`.

```suggestion
                EmitChanged();
```

            }
        }
    }

You then want to connect the signal when a new resource is set:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @tool
    class_name MyTool
    extends Node

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            resource = new_resource
            # Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)

    func _on_resource_changed():
        print("My resource just changed!")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    [Tool]
    public partial class MyTool : Node
    {
        private MyResource _resource;

        [Export]
        public MyResource Resource
        {
            get => _resource;
            set
            {
                _resource = value;
                // Connect the changed signal as soon as a new resource is being added.
                _resource.Changed += OnResourceChanged;
            }
        }
    }

    private void OnResourceChanged()
    {
        GD.Print("My resource just changed!");
    }

> Lastly, you should to disconnect the signal as the old resource being used and changed somewhere else

Author: ```suggestion
Lastly, remember to disconnect the signal as the old resource being used and changed somewhere else
```

Author: okay I am afraid this is going to need a new PR

Reviewer: Yes you can't update something already merged, but no worries, missed it too

would cause unneeded updates.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    @export var resource: MyResource:
        set(new_resource):
            # Disconnect the signal if the previous resource was not null.
            if resource != null:
                resource.changed.disconnect(_on_resource_changed)
            resource = new_resource
            resource.changed.connect(_on_resource_changed)

> .. code-tab:: csharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 .. code-tab:: csharp
```
